# Slide 5

## Step 1

Say: Since you'll be speaking, reasoning, and explaining out loud often in these sessions, let's practice together. This will help you see how it works and ensure you're speaking clearly and loudly enough for me to hear. Can you first read the total number we are supposed to be representing with counters out loud?(Visual Aid: The number 5463)(Correct Answer: five thousand, four hundred and sixty-three)

## Step 2

Say: Can you tell me how many thousand counters are missing? (Visual Aid: The number 5463 represented in place value counters, but with some counters ripped out. The visible counters include one "1000" counter, two "100" counters, three "10" counters, and two "1" counters.)(Correct Answer: 4 thousand counters are missing or 4)

## Step 3

Say: Now how many hundreds are missing? (Visual Aid: The number 5463 represented in place value counters, but with some counters ripped out. The visible counters include one "1000" counter, two "100" counters, three "10" counters, and two "1" counters.)(Correct Answer: 2 or two hundreds or 2 hundreds counters are missing)

## Step 4

Say: What is the next logical step, which group of missing counters would you look for now? (Visual Aid: The number 5463 represented in place value counters, but with some counters ripped out. The visible counters include one "1000" counter, two "100" counters, three "10" counters, and two "1" counters. The student has already identified the missing thousands and hundreds place value counters)(Correct Answer: the ten counters)

## Step 5

Say: So how many of these tens counters are missing then? (Visual Aid: The number 5463 represented in place value counters, but with some counters ripped out. The visible counters include one "1000" counter, two "100" counters, three "10" counters, and two "1" counters. The student has already identified the missing thousands and hundreds place value counters) (Correct Answer: 3 or three tens or 3 tens are missing)

## Step 6

Say: So describe the final step and tell me what the answer is. (Visual Aid: The number 5463 represented in place value counters, but with some counters ripped out. The visible counters include one "1000" counter, two "100" counters, three "10" counters, and two "1" counters. The student has already identified the missing thousands, hundreds and tens place value counters)(Correct Answer: Check how many ones are missing and there is one "one counter" missing)
