# Slide 4

## Step 1

Say: We are going to learn about the value of different digits in a number. This means we are going to learn how the position of digits tells us how much it is worth. Could you write and say what the value is of the blue counters as a decimal number? (Visual Aid: The blue counters show both 1/10 as a fraction.)(Correct Answer: zero point two because two times 1/10 is equal to zero point two.)

## Step 2

Say: Now can you write and say what the value is of the green counters as a decimal? (Visual Aid: All the four green counters show 1/100 as a fraction.)(Correct Answer: zero point zero four because four times 1/100 is equal to zero point zero four.)(Support Slide: 5)

## Step 3

Say: could you please explain if 2 tenths or 4 hundredths is bigger and why? (Correct Answer: zero point two because 0.2 is bigger because when we divide a whole into hundredths the size of each piece is ten times smaller than if I divide by ten.)

## Step 4

Say: Please could you write the number of the counters in question a together as a decimal and read it out loud. (Visual Aid: The two numbers are 0.2 and 0.04.)(Correct Answer: 0.24 read as zero point two four. If the student reads the number incorrectly as zero point twenty-four explain that we read each number after the point separately to represent each place value so it is zero point four two.)

## Step 5

Say: Can you explain how the place value chart on the right helps you to write decimal numbers correctly? (Correct Answer: It is a visual way to see whole numbers before the decimal point and decimal numbers after and helps you put the correct value in each column.)(Next Slide: 6)
