# Slide 2

## Step 1

Say: Before we dive into adding and subtracting, let us first visualise a fraction and understand how it is written as a fraction and decimal to better understand the value of each digit after the decimal point. For question 1, could you tell me how many tenths are shaded? (Visual Aid: A hundreds square with one out of ten rows shaded.)(Correct Answer: One )(Support Question: How many small squares are there and what does each square represent? The answer is that there are 100 small squares and each represent a hundredth. What does each strip of ten represent? The answer is that each strip represents a tenth as there are ten strips in the hundreds square)

## Step 2

Say: Can you now write this as a decimal number in the place value chart. (Visual Aid: A place value chart with ones, tenths and hundredths with space in each column to write the answer) (Correct Answer: The first number is 0, the second number is 1 and the third number is 0)

## Step 3

Say: So for b, how would you write the fraction 3 tenths as a decimal? (Visual Aid: 3/10)(Correct Answer: 0.30 or 0.3)

## Step 4

Say: For question 2, only one hundredth is shaded. Please write this as a decimal in the place value chart.(Visual Aid: A place value chart with ones, tenths and hundredths with space in each column to write the answer)(Correct Answer: The first number is 0, the second number is 0 and the third number is 1)

## Step 5

Say: Please try and write the fraction 4 hundredths in question b as a decimal? (Visual Aid: 4/100)(Correct Answer: 0.04)
