# Slide 2

## Step 1

Say: Partitioning is where we split numbers into smaller parts. We are going to practice partition whole numbers to help prepare us for partitioning decimals. Could you please tell me what the value is of the 2 in the hundred thousands column? (Correct Answer: 200000) (Support Question: The hundred thousands column is in blue and has a 2 in it. How would you say the number that is made up of 2 groups of one hundred thousand? The answer is two hundred thousand)

## Step 2

Say: What is the value of the 5 in the thousands column? (Correct Answer: 5000) (Support Question: The thousands column is in purple and has a 5 in it, how would you say the number that has 5 groups of one thousand? The answer is five thousand)

## Step 3

Say: Now could you please read the number in the place value chart out. (Correct Answer: Two hundred and twenty five thousand, one hundred and six) (Support Question: You read the thousands group together first as 225 thousand, then the hundreds group as one hundred and six, try again. The answer is Two hundred and twenty five thousand, one hundred and six)

## Step 4

Say: A Gattegno chart helps us to see the different parts a number is made up of. Please select the correct numbers from the chart that make the number 225106. (Correct Answer: 200000 + 20000 + 5000 + 100 + 6)

## Step 5

Say: Now using that information from b, complete the number sentence.  (Correct Answer: The first number is 200000, the second number is 20000, the third number is 5000, the fourth number is 100 and the fifth number is 6)
